[Intro: Ace Hood & Chris Brown]
Yeah, Ace Hood (Woah)
What's up, baby? We the best, huh (Woah, oh)
So I had a few things in mind  (Woah oh)
Haha, and I was thinkin' of
(J.U.S.T.I.C.E. League, J.U.S.T.I.C.E. League)
Ow!

[Chorus: Chris Brown & Ace Hood]
Baby, you don't have to try to read my mind
'Cause you know I wanna get it in (Na'mean?)
And tell me why would we just think about it?
If you want it, then I got it (You know what it is, baby)
We can be body to body, body to body (Mr. Hood)
I don't mean to rush you, girl
But we should be body to body
Body to body, body to body (Mr. Hood, yeah)

[Verse 1: Ace Hood]
Uh, picture your body soakin', bath water
No panties on, come up out them leg warmers (Ooh)
Wrap up your hair (Hair), leave on your heels (Heels)
Kissin' you while I whisper, "Shawty, how it feels?"
Let ya mind wonder, oh, you're thinkin' dirty
I was thinkin' you can ride me, Miss Kentucky Derby (Haha)
I dream about it, let's take advantage
My body on your body, hope that you can manage
Gotta moan it, damn it, feels good
Pullin' on her hair to let her know I'm still hood (Right)
Damn right (Damn right), so unreal
This year of the Ace, bet ya that she know the deal (Ow!)

[Chorus: Chris Brown & Ace Hood]
Baby, you don't have to try to read my mind
'Cause you know I wanna get it in
And tell me why would we just think about it?
If you want it, then I got it
We can be body to body, body to body
I don't mean to rush you, girl
But we should be body to body (Yeah, I say)
Body to body, body to body (That's right)

[Verse 2: Ace Hood]
Uh, so quit ya contemplatin', skip this conversation
By the way you bitin' on your lip just gave me confirmation
Was that Chanel 5? Very sexy fragrance
Are those your real eyes? Can tell you're partially Asian
But I know your body got me focused, I'm just so sedated
And I guarantee I'll do you better than your past and latest (Ow!)
Body to body (Body), wet as Dasani (Woo!)
Bet if I hit your spot that I'll make you tsunami (Ow!)
Change up the sheets (Sheets), no time to sleep
Asked her what she's think, then she replied that I'm a beast (Woo!)
Yeah, she replied that I'm a beast (Ah)
Got it locked between the sheets and even in the streets

[Chorus: Chris Brown]
Baby, you don't have to try to read my mind
'Cause you know I wanna get it in, yeah
And tell me why would we just think about it?
If you want it, then I got it
We can be body to body, body to body (Yeah)
I don't mean to rush you, girl
But we should be body to body (We)
Body to body, body to body

[Bridge: Chris Brown]
We're making love on the floor
You're kissing my tattoos
I'm pulling your hair, you scream my name
Call me daddy, baby, I got you
Girl, get in your bed and lay it down, down, down
Girl, are you ready?
'Cause I'm gon' want you face down, down, down, right now
You fucking with a real freak

[Chorus: Chris Brown]
Baby, you don't have to try to read my mind
'Cause you know I wanna get it in (Girl, you know that I wanna)
And tell me why would we just think about it? (Yeah, yeah)
If you want it, then I got it
We can be body to body, body to body
I don't mean to rush you, girl (Oh, we can be)
But we should be body to body
Body to body, body to body (Yeah, oh)