[Intro: DJ Khaled & T-Pain]
I'm for real about this shit (Oh-OH!)
This the remix
(Welcome to my hood, hee)
Let's go, remix, remix, remix
(Where ya hood at) Remix!
(Where ya hood at) Remix!
(Where ya hood at) Remix!

[Chorus: T-Pain, DJ Khaled, & Ludacris]
Welcome to my hood
Everybody know everybody
And if I got it everybody got it, ugh
Welcome to my hood
Look at all these old school Chevys
24s, so you know we roll heavy, ugh! (Y, M, C, M, B!)
Welcome to my hood
Where they gettin' fly like a G6
And everybody know this is the remix
Welcome to my hood (Miami-Dade County, 305)
Them boys will put you down on yo knees
We The Best Music
(Woop, woop!) That’s the sound of the police in my hood
You playin' wit em! Luda!

[Verse 1: Ludacris]
Everybody on the corner with the work
Slangin' and bangin' in front of that liquor store (Oh!)
Blowin' money 'cause I live life fast
With this bottle full of 'gnac, I'ma sip this slow (Oh!)
Singles double when triple-beams take over
Now holler 'cause these Impalas got extreme makeovers (Woo!)
Couches covered in plastic, babies all in the street now
Wear the wrong color, catch a Rodney King beatdown
Kids hit with switches, mamas is quotin' scriptures
While Luda's getting head, more gums than baby pictures (Woo!)
Cock my .40 Glock and my partner just bought a replica
Now Asians sayin' they don't keep no cash in they register
(Hurry up and buy!)
We run from red and blue lights to get that green
But whoever got that white is winning like Charlie Sheen! (Woo!)

[Verse 2: T-Pain]
Hey! Teddy Pain (Teddy Pain) Bad man (Bad man)
Mix shots, boom-(boom)-boom-(boom)-boom-(bang)!
Man, we the best, never the less, you know we get it hot
Fire (flame, flame), fire—fire (flame)
Put me on the track and I'ma really let a motherfucker feel it
When I do it, how I do it, what I do (Do)
If a nigga really wanna test (Come and test)
You can bet that I'ma eat 'em all day (Fuck food!)
850, what I represent ('Sent)
Talla-home Florida president ('Sent)
Me and DJ Khaled got these haters lookin' hesitant, yeah (Oww)
So keep all that wackness out my ear
(Boop, boop!) That’s the sound of your career in my hood—

[Interlude: Busta Rhymes]
I hope you niggas got your ringside seats
'Cause it's whoop-ass season

[Verse 3: Busta Rhymes]
(Coming to a hood near you!)
Everybody know what happen
When you see me comin' (Back up!)
I be hurdling and got you regurgitating
And murdering everything (Gunshots!)
Pop-pop-pop-pop-pop-pop-pop-pop
(Y'all know what it is!) I'm coming to get it
And others are blocking
I'm runnin' the hood and can't nothin' come top it
You can Google it and you can search it (Oooooh!)
On how a nigga come and unlock it
Impossible for you to stop it (Damn!)
(More fire 'pon di place!) Now go and heed the villain
You're like, "He's injured" and prob'ly need a medical situation
Because the way I'm fuckin' everything up 'til the people dead
Why you tryna do it? You already know that I'm the king with it
And, you don't wanna come behind me with it, bro! (Hunh!)
I killed this shit! I ain't gotta rhyme no more, man! Tch!

[Break: T-Pain]
Welcome to my hood!

[Verse 4: Twista & Mavado]
Welcome to my hood
Where board members and faculty backin' me
If you ever try attackin' me
That could be when I eat 'em, especially when I beat 'em
When they see a bunch of killas and hustlas on the side of me
I'm an anomaly to 'em, put 'em on crutches
With succulent verses, I'm just the one that's kicking the ruckus
Munch as I smoke a Dutchess, and model bitches that cut us
And motherfuckers that love us, and enemies wanna touch us
I'ma spit a flow as if it was a sin (Haha, what!)
Then the gangstas are resting up forever (Ah...)
See a silent four-, put it on the fin (What!)
Then you know to never test him
It'll be a category F5 (Ayyy)
Handle military with automatic weapons, so let's ride (I...)
Love to the Hundreds, and everybody that runnin' them north
And the whole city, and I'm from the westside (Wan', today)

[Verse 5: Mavado]
Welcome to the gully where we no take bad up
Big spliff in ah mi hand (Haha) and Hennessy in ah mi cup
You see the gyaldem we have up is like some angels abduct
Them fat-tongue, grabba, yah hear me? Haha
When you pass the gate, written at the entrance
"Violate: Straight death sentence"
To live, you must be great; to be a snake, no repentance
We coming at you with vengeance

[Break: T-Pain]
Welcome to my hood!

[Verse 6: DJ Khaled]
Never slippin', I'm ballin', Puff keep on callin'
I don't see none of you pussies (I ain't tryna hear that shit)
Fuck that shit you be talkin'
Rep Miami, the ghettos (Dade County)
Every hood and the projects
And when I drop off my singles
I'm droppin' one of my targets (Tsssss)
Lord, forgive me for my sins (God, forgive me)
I gave you hits—I gave you "All I Do Is Win" (I won't stop)
I live this shit
And We The Best, it’s no pretend (I'm for real about this)
I'm touching millions, throwin' hundreds in this bitch

[Interlude: Birdman]
Yeah!
Uptown, swagged-out, let's get it (Aw-ah! Aw-ah!)

[Verse 7: Birdman]
R-Real nigga, number one (Yeah)
Hustle fly with my son (Junior!)
Come from Uptown (Believe that)
G5 Tommy gun (Tommy gun)
Red flag every day
Hundred mil' ready to spray (Ready to spray)
Swagged-out nigga, Bugatti with the paper plates
B-B-Blowing on some good, nigga (Good, nigga)
Feeling good, nigga (Feeling good, nigga)
Stunna Island
Me and Khaled on the wood, nigga (On the wood, nigga)
You understand? Shinin' like I know we should
Birdman, YMCMB, we good, nigga! Yeah

[Verse 8: Ace Hood]
Broward! (Brr-r-rat!)
Ace Hood in this bitch, ho
Kickin' down in your front door
Knock-knock, you hear the Glock cock
And that thing pop on that four-four (Brr-r-rat!)
Posted on it, that same block
I'm in the droptop with that bankroll
Young—Young nigga, I'm out here
Can't name a place that I can't go
Ridin' round with 'bout fifty grand
And they wonder, "What do that safe hold?"
Middle finger them Feds
And that's what I pledge—a part of my G code
And it's fuck them prosecutors; hustler, connoisseur
It's We The Best Forever
Make sure you spread the rumor, bitch

[Break: T-Pain]
Welcome to my hood!

[Verse 9: Fat Joe]
Good coke, hard rock, stashed in the body shop
Only way to break them bricks down is karate chops
Niggas gettin' left right in front of the Marble precinct
Leave 'em like them Jordans, red-dot, leakin'
I'm fifteen when I first startin' coppin' pies
You 46 just turnin' Blood? Stop it, Five
It's like the only way to make it is supplyin' things
Hoop dreams, dunkin' over cars, let the choir sing

[Verse 10: Game]
Yo, it’s that black raw, black dawg
Pullin' up on that black Hog
Compton, that's my backyard
That's where I used to get them sacks off
But now I got platinum plaques in the back of the 'Bach
And I'm back with Dre again
Aftermath, We The Best, me and Khaled, Dre and Em
Detox, RED, that's back to the back
Step in the club with my hat to the back
Nigga, I'm so hood even though I'm living good
Niggas still in the VIP strapped with a gat
Drop a couple stacks, then, it's back to the trap
Couple hoes in the back, red wheels on the 'Lac
REDRUM if you try it; nigga, it's Westside!
Throw it up! Now!

[Break: T-Pain]
Welcome to my hood!

[Verse 11: Jadakiss]
They knockin' packs off (Off), they lettin' gats off (Off)
Medicaid benefit cards, scratch-offs (Mmm!)
Savin' every dime (Yeah), tryna choke a quarter
And they ain't sellin' crack (Nah), they sellin' coke and water (Woo)
Smokin' or ya snortin' (Ahh), they coppin' all the Jordans (Yeah)
Nothing's more important, steal 'em if you can't afford 'em (Yup)
I'm gettin' to the money (Money), I need another comma
Some of 'em love the drama (Yeah)
More than they love they mama, ugh!

[Verse 12: Bun B & Waka Flocka Flame]
Yeah! Welcome to the land of the trill
Well, everybody walkin' with they hand on they steel
And the model is a supply and demand, and at will
You been outta line with the wrong man and get killed
When you damned if you will, damned if you won't
Lot of dudes sayin' that they can, but they don't
And a lot of boys sayin' that they Gs, but they ain't
Mess around, get laid down in the paint
Better do what you say, say what you do
'Fore I come around your hood, broad day, with the crew
They got them [?], ARs and Ks with 'em, too
And they will gladiate all day, what it do!
R.I.P. to the trillest that did it
To my Gs on lockdown, acquitted
Stick with it, think I'ma stop reppin' PAT, forget it
RIVERDALE! Waka! Flocka! Waka! Flocka!

[Verse 13: Waka Flocka Flame]
Welcome to Clayton County (Ugh! Ugh!)
My house got surrounded (Ugh! Ugh! Flocka!)
Enemies tryna drown me
But my hood still around me (RIVERDALE!)
Rookie of the year (Yeah!), no Freshmen cover
Shawty 16 years old, with four baby mothers (Flocka!)
First rapper ever to jump off the stage on BET (Uh-huh)
And since Pac go to Hollywood to keep it street (Ugh!)
First Woo to put T. Rodgers on the TV (Flocka!)
Every day is a party on Grove Street

[Outro: DJ Khaled]
"We The Best Forever"
June 28th
It's gon' be a hot summer