[Intro: XXXTENTACION & John Cunningham]
This brings the vibe of 17 straight into this new album and it's enough for people to be like, "Okay, okay"
Exactly exactly, it's like you don't need to give them six, seven songs that were the old vibe
Yeah
It's like if there was one that was the updated version of 17, yeah
Exactly!
Should this be number one on the album? I don't know
I feel like it's fire
I just, it might just be a hit to be honest, it might be a hit and like my mind
'Cause you're part of my energy now, so it's like when you hear a song from me it's almost like you're hearing the song from yourself so it's like you know my capabilities
So it's like, you know what I'm saying?
Yeah
But this- but like my capabilities are so endless that for other people it's like, uh, you know what I'm saying for something like this they be like
Yeah, yeah yeah yeah
Do you put it number one? That's the great question, do you wanna get back to that window? There you go

[Refrain: XXXTENTACION & John Cunningham]
(Why am I so in love?)
(Why am I so in love?)
And in it come—, yeah that's how it should start
(Why am I so in love?) Damn, this is hypnotizing
(Why am I so in love?)
(Why am I so in love?) Aw, this is fire
(Why am I so in love?) This is fire, yeah
(Why am I so in love?) Just a lil' bit a weed with a lil', yo yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, that's it, that's it, that's it

[Interlude: XXXTENTACION & John Cunningham]
And the other one comes later on
Do you want the other one
And the other one comes in at the end
Yeah
This is the perfect intro
Yeah, yeah
Why am I so in love?

[Chorus: XXXTENTACION]
Mix a little bit of weed with a little bit of cash
With a little bit of this, with a little bit of that
We gon' be al—, we gon' be al—
We gon' be al—, we gon' be al—

[Verse: XXXTENTACION]
Steady tryin' to maintain
Same things that'll blow a bitch mind frame
My brain can't fathom what the hate say
He say, she say, how 'bout me say?
Get the Vis-a, headed to the islands A-S-A-P
What's that on my shawty wrist? That's a AP
I'm the type to save a bitch, C-A-P-E
Feelin' like ET, flyin' out of the Addy
Fuckin' on shawty, she baddie, casual convo then at it

[Interlude: XXXTENTACION & John Cunningham]
Whoa!
Jesus Christ
Whoa, so fire, then where do you want the other one to come in?
I mean I'm better than better, maybe I'm lyin'
Huh?
You don't want the other one come 'til you start rapping right?
Until the end
Okay, cool
Or it might, it might, so start— yeah right, the perfect mix, the perfect mix
I think I know what you're saying, it's gonna be like, yeah it's gotta be like
You should like a drop where it like, you should make a drop where it likes, "So in love"
And you know what I'm saying, and I'll come in

[Chorus: XXXTENTACION]
Mix a little bit of weed with a little bit of cash
With a little bit of this, with a little bit of that
We gon' be al—, we gon' be al—

[Outro: XXXTENTACION & John Cunningham]
This is what we needed (Attracted)
Yeah, exactly
We gon' be al—, we gon' be al—